not that i like name call or anything
like that but certainly
i can have a pretty attitude and
sometimes that's
all that's all you need
um so for those who don't know iselle of
alicia
he made a video recently another video
discussing his views on pet ownership
and he mentions that the criticisms of
his views that he has heard that they
aren't worthy of a response including
uh my video that i did talking about pet
ownership if i haven't apologized for
something you think i should apologize
for
it just means i don't feel sorry i don't
think i should apologize
it's weird that needs to be said but it
seems like now people that's like not an
option if someone hasn't apologized it's
because
they're afraid to or they're like
doubling down
or they don't want to look dumb or
something like that like there's not
even
options just like maybe they don't think
they should apologize
honestly right now i regret even
discussing this in this video because i
i do think my earlier videos on this
subject raised a really important
argument
and i don't think i've seen even one
person respond to the substance that
argument in a way that's interesting or
merits
any further reply or comment on my point
and of course for those of you know that
includes unnatural vegan i mean
obviously i
appreciate that a natural vegan has
shown me support in my recent dealing
with uh threats of violence defamation
with the ridiculous
uh you know catastrophe that went down
in chiang mai but no what she has to say
about this topic
there is not even one sentence of it
that i think merits
uh serious intellectual introspection
reflection or critique
so iselle sent me the link to this video
uh i guess soon after it was posted at
the time it was
unlisted it was only for his patrons and
i responded
via email by expressing you know my
concerns
[Music]
and he responded to my response via
email
[Music]
to be clear my point with this video is
not to denounce
iselle or his channel or even really to
encourage you to stop watching his
videos if you do watch his videos
um it's merely to explain why i
personally no longer feel comfortable
recommending his channel and why i have
removed his channel from my
recommended section on my channel page i
often say that
i when i make a response to someone i'm
not doing it
like for them to reach them but for
other people anyone else who's like
viewing the video because i think it's a
much higher bar right he basically
presents
my response my email as me having hurt
feelings because he disagreed with me
and because he called
you know my argument stupid
i have no problem with iselle
disagreeing with me you know i've
disagreed with numerous points he's made
in past videos
he's disagreed with me on numerous stuff
it's never been
a problem because ultimately i saw his
channel as
uh as promoting a pragmatic approach to
veganism which is very important to me
and he also doesn't spew like
anti-science
anti-vac stuff crazy diets any of that
kind of stuff
um i also have no problem with iselle
calling my arguments stupid or beneath
contempt there are plenty of
asinine disturbing beliefs out there
that we all feel the same way about and
i don't think there's anything wrong
with
saying that an argument is stupid
beneath contempt whatever
other adjective you would like to use my
issue is with izelle's
flippant dismissal of the argument
this is the part that's really baffling
and strange
if she wants to criticize what i have to
say that's fine
that's great i'm happy to hear the
critique
but she pretends that i didn't
say anything that i just flippantly
dismissed her views without presenting
any kind of
in-depth critique of what the difference
of opinion between us
is as is referred to here on screen
in the emails that pass between us
before she made this video
i had made more than 30 minutes
of video content on this and i followed
up
with a 15 minute video thereafter again
in the time before this email was sent
which was certainly
several days or maybe a week before she
made her video in response to me i
forget exactly
how many days passed so she uses one
short
clip of me saying that i don't think
her views merit serious consideration
and then pretends that my great sin
the terrible thing i did was not devote
enough
time to refuting her views when i had
already made multiple lengthy videos
refuting precisely those views you know
he says
in the video that he believes uh pet
ownership is an important topic that he
wants to
just to discuss yet when others um
including myself try to discuss it by
sharing our own views
he waves them away without explaining
why if you were paying attention
when you saw the text on screen before
you've seen me
apologize for hurting her feelings and
my impression is
that she had hurt feelings but even if
she didn't have hurt feelings
it is certainly appropriate in this
context for me to apologize to her and
say look i'm sorry if you found what i
had to say
abrasive but what's impossible for me to
respond to
is this bizarre pretense that i have
never made my analysis of the
ethics and the politics and the
philosophical implications
of pet ownership known as i just showed
you in a screenshot
there was already a metric
ton of video content
discussing this on my youtube channel at
that time
if you just search for the words pet
ownership
within my channel now these are the
search results i got
doing a google search for my own name
plus pet ownership i have a playlist on
the topic
it is a truly surreal form of defamation
to try to deal with what she has done in
this responsibility to me that has been
seen by
hundreds of thousands of people and has
influenced so many people
in the vegan movement and it is very
strange the way in which she now
justifies a further denunciation of my
character
by alluding to my supposed silence
on this issue that i have in plain
english
disgust to death it's already hard to
admit when we're wrong and in that case
where it's like
you know you're admitting to potentially
thousands
hundreds of thousands of people like
it's a whole it's a whole nother
level so yeah i don't make a video to
reach them i make a video to reach
people who are
you know probably less invested maybe
more willing to learn
more willing to change we're being
criticized we need to feel
like we're being respected and like or
even if we're just being taught
something something that questions our
lifestyle i think we need to
be kind of handled with kid gloves a
little bit
he's only inter interested in discussion
when he thinks he can win
you know in this case it seems he can't
actually counter the argument
and is just simply unwilling to admit
that he was wrong
there is no way to make sense of this
claim
neither by watching her youtube video in
isolation
nor by going back and rereading the
emails
she and i exchanged before she made
the video what does the word it
refer to in this sentence what could it
possibly
be that i can't defend or am unwilling
to talk about but just
just can't admit that i'm wrong and
reading the emails
what could it even be that she is
deluding herself
into thinking i feel this way about he
can't
actually counter the argument and is
just simply unwilling to admit
that he was wrong the only possible
answer
to what the word it means in this video
is that i know and i've admitted to
myself
that there's nothing immoral about
killing a cow
to feed its meat to your own pet cat
that i i really know that deep down
inside
and i just you know lack the moral fiber
necessary
to come out on youtube and admit that
i'm wrong
and that explains my silence on the
matter
right like it's not like i made 15
videos adding up to
hours and hours of content discussing
these issues
in depth but i really try to not
to not be so smug and i think i succeed
and then i go to edit
and what the hell it's just it's just
there it's just in me i don't know i
don't know what to do
how do i fix that and maybe that's kind
of inherent to criticism
in general i mean why is it that
virtually all of the
the drama channels the response response
channels whatever they're run by
like me you know it's it's
because we're the ones who are
willing to do it we're the ones who like
get off on doing it we actually like
doing it
um and we're also the ones who are
rewarded for it certainly
i mean people want to see people be
angry or snarky or whatever they don't
want to see like calm
compassionate you know criticism you
know he did the same
when commenting on peter singer but even
worse so
you know instead of one particular
argument that singer has made
eizel says that nothing singer has ever
said has swayed him or inspired him
you know everything he has to say
regarding veganism and animal ethics is
stupid
so he is essentially painting an entire
person's
career and contribution to something
very meaningful
as as meaningless does that sound
like a fair and reasonable summation of
my views
on peter singer or does that sound
like a catty baity gossip
and drama channel trying to create
interpersonal conflict out of
nothing if you don't have um
a sort of kind of confrontational maybe
personality you probably don't want to
do something like this that
is kind of inherently involving
confrontation right if you don't like
that you would
hate doing this even though you might be
the the best at it
if we encourage people to just trust us
to just
believe what we say is true that our
argument is right end of story and that
their argument is wrong end of story
um we run the risk of people treating
anything we say as gospel
this is the part of her video that most
people remember
and indeed it is memorable
where in a strange stumbling way
she equates what i'm doing on youtube
with
dangerous people like freely and
durianrider
because i'm asking the members of my
audience
to just take my word for it
to just trust me to just have
faith in what i'm saying
the effects of throwing intellectual
honesty to the wind and giving into cult
mentality are unpredictable
but almost always negative and the
negative effects you know these negative
effects of fandoms echo chambers cults
whatever you want to call them
it runs both ways i'm not suggesting
that this is where iselle and his
channel are headed obviously i have no
clue
um i'm simply stating that someone who
sees no
issue with painting an argument as
stupid without explaining why
who sees no issue with painting a person
as uninspiring with nothing of value to
say without explaining why
and who sees no issue with providing
incomplete information
so that viewers are forced to have faith
that what he's saying is true
that such a person comes across to me as
someone who isn't concerned
about the potential for fanaticism and
echo chambers the fact that i expressed
this concern
in my email and that he didn't even
bother to address it in his video
response
that speaks volumes to me i have never
once
recommended a brand of toothpaste
on my channel and i'm incredibly
cautious incredibly cautious
in even recommending that you read a
book i don't want to waste people's time
and say this book would be worth reading
for you and you and you in the audience
because i don't believe that i think
books that are worthwhile rewarding and
important for me to read
are probably going to be a waste of your
time if you don't have the same research
interest
i'm someone who's incredibly cautious
in asking you to take anything on faith
but what did the
word it refer to here what was this
controversy about
that a natural vegan managed to escalate
and dramatize out of
all proportion pet food
you know what you got me swayze i
really am asking you to trust me to take
my word for it to accept it
as a matter of faith that if you pay
someone
to kill a cow so that you can turn its
meat
into cat food and you can feed it to
your pet cat
that cow is killed
exactly the same way as if you were
buying
its flesh to feed yourself
paying people to raise cows
and kill them in slaughterhouses and
process
their meat into food it's exactly the
same
it's exactly the same moral economic
and ecological problem whether the mouth
that devours the flesh of the cow
is your own or that of your pet
cat trust me no
footnotes no citations no
further explanations
not that i like name call or anything
like that but certainly i can have a
pretty attitude and sometimes
that's all
that's all you need